# ROUGE-Style Automatic Evaluation

This folder contains code for generating textual summaries of events from three sources:

1. Wikipedia - A simple summary of each event, though we expect these summaries are not massively useful for situational awareness, attention support, or decision making.

2. ICS 209 Archive - A dataset of real daily hazard reports, gathered from Lise St. Denis. This data comes from a pre-release version of their updated NIMS database.
    
3. NIST Assessor Summaries - A dataset of event summaries generated by NIST assessors, where CrisisFACTS coordinators asked NIST assessors to identify and timestamp important facts from each event.

## Evaluating Your Submission

To run the evaluation against your code and generate the ROUGE/BERTScore metrics used in CrisisFACTS 2022, simply drop your submitted run file (or a new one in the same format) in either the `submissions.extractive` or `submissions.abstractive` directories. You can include as many runs in this directory as you want; they will be process in one pass of the evaluations script.

Ensure your file is in compressed JSON, as the provided example baseline files are.

Then, run either the `01-EvaluateRuns-BERTScore.ipynb` or the `01-EvaluateRuns-ROUGE.ipynb` notebooks to generate the appropriate metrics.

__NOTE__: The `00-CreateMultiSummaries.ipynb` script generates the gold-standard summaries we use, but you can't run that script in full, because we're not providing the raw ICS 209 dataset at this time (it is currently in pre-release, and we will make it available when the authors release it publicly). In the mean time, the `gold.summaries.json.gz` is the output of this script, and we provide that for you already.

## File Structure

- `00-CreateMultiSummaries.ipynb` - For generating gold-standard summaries

- `01-EvaluateGoldSummaries.ipynb` - Compares summary scores between pairs of gold-standard summaries.

- `01-EvaluateRuns-BERTScore.ipynb` - Evaluates submitted runs using *BERTScore* against the gold-standard summaries.

- `01-EvaluateRuns-ROUGE.ipynb` - Evaluates submitted runs using *ROUGE* against the gold-standard summaries.

- `CrisisFACTs-2022.facts.json` - NIST-produced facts list

- `CrisisFACTs-2022.topics.json` - List of CrisisFACTS topics

- `CrisisFACTs-2022.topics.to.ic209.json` - Map of CrisisFACTS topics to ICS 209 event names

- `gold.summaries.json.gz` - Resulting gold-standard summaries.